He has a mother.
The mother of them.
The way is the subject of an inquiry.
It is the theory of Senator McCarthy that this witness is testimony is colored.
Or is perhaps untrue because of a controversy that has shared a fore existing between Senator McCarthy and this witness's brother.
That is the implication of the charge that in my opinion makes it competent to pursue that land of ingress.
I'm Claire and I thank the council for his explanation.
I really wanted to accept it.
That as I understand my brother's case, he retired as he's entitled to do by law upon reaching the age of 50.
That's all I wanted to say.
I know nothing about any security case involved in this.
Very well known are there any other questions you may be dismissed.
Carol Weber you are a dismissed and I say to you is an old friend that we appreciate and the cooperative management which you have handled you a part of this discussion.
Thank you very much Mr. Chairman.
What is this? What is it?
Pardon me.
Miss Lieutenant Weber.
I think more respect for the chairman of the acting chairman of this committee than almost any other Senator here.
I think he is one of the most intelligent, one of the most honest, sincere senators we have.
Let me say over that when he talks about the frank testimony of this witness.
When the witness has said to me, Mr. Frank Carr on the eighth of July, when Frank Carr was head of the FBI, so Bristol Group in New York,
and later admitted to the never-numerous regard until he came before the committee in September.
When he makes accusations, I just think the chair should perhaps wait until the balance of the testimony is in.
May the court retore any chance for you to get the details of Frank Madder and which general reason to change the testimony when you find out.
I just wanted to say this that I requested this morning from Washington, the mutual network is bringing you on the spot coverage of the McCarthy Army hearings.
Our coverage will continue after this 10-second pause or station identification. This is a mutual broadcasting system.
7-10 on your dial. W-L-R. New York.
I know that he is very honest.
But there is no presence on the next week, Frank.
Back in Washington, mutual coverage of the McCarthy Army hearings continues before the 7-1st permanent subcommittee on investigations.
As I know, the announcement is made today to Mr. Carr, team of the committee.
He was working for the FBI running the office, what do you call it, Frank?
In security matters in New York, it has supervision of some 100-odd people.
The night of the 15th, on July 16th, the announcement was made and he came with the committee.
I know that the only matter of 6 days is some here and I know that any mistake you make there is a complete beyond the whole.
It does not affect that when we met on July 10th, Mr. Carr was present.
He is here now and he will recall that we are all there.
And the announcement was made that he would be the new executive director of the staff.
Senator Tars, I know.
And, let me further.
6-6 days, minute to 2.
As far as I know, there was no announcement, man, until the 16th.
The point is, when General Reaver said he knew him on the 8th, he was not here, he did not know him.
And General Reaver himself, very honestly, and very frankly admits that he made a mistake.
I don't accuse him of any misconduct.
It's a mistake you get a very easily made.
And I think that he is making mistakes about other things.
I think when further cuts the money he had missed that, the point is,
the General Reaver was very honest about this this morning.
He first said he knew fine currently.
I finally said he didn't meet him, but it will stop somewhere on the 8th.
There is nothing, nothing as far as I know, General, that it indists you because of that.
It's just a mistake in memory and we got those, we all make them.
Well, I want the record to show them, but in your chair, I can recall,
positively by association of events that Mr. Carr and the minister will throw this close,
but I'm sure it was before the committee on July 10th.
And what are public announcements made later?
No, I don't know.
Senator, the senator is in here.
That is made.
Yes, that's it.
Something that should be able to establish an entire vote.
Mr. Chairman, I think it's completely unimportant, but I just want to make the point.
The important center for Washington and the Senate is completely unenthrused.
And the record will show this chairman, the ICTJ.
That senator McCartney will have an opportunity to testify before they change.
He'll have to continue then, then they give testimony with respect to that fact.
And the senator Jackson will likewise have the same opportunity.
And I do not think those statements may say either party are proper at this time.
And I'm not getting the same.
I would like to make this statement on understanding the committee.
I do not know anything about your minutes.
All you I remember today that I left the committee.
But I do know that I met Mr. Carr at a meeting of the committee before the Democrats left the committee.
Of that I am certain.
Those are questions of truth.
Substitute to the established practice proved during the course of this year.
And I might suggest that no party who is making this statement with reference to that fact has been unrolled.
And I'll revert to the science of the committee that he might lead an arrow to memory on that point and we have kept his testimony on that date.
Thank you General George Smith.
Mr. Chairman I desire to call a witness at this time whose testimony will be lengthy.
I am advised that another witness who I desire to put on this afternoon, bereason of the fact that entire committee's commitments may compare his absence from the city at 3.30.
With the understanding that the witness I am now about to put on will be permitted to step aside at 3.30.
I desire to call the next witness Mr. Robert T. Stephen.
Stephen.
I am coming now before the committee moving up to the witness chair is Secretary of the Army Robert T. Stephen.
One of the principles in this affair of Senator McCarthy is dispute with the Army.
He is probably more closely associated with this whole controversy than any other individual with the exception of Senator McCarthy of course.
Secretary Stephen.
Chairman March is gaffling for order.
From fire with the request of counsel, you ask Mr. Stephen to suffocize and you can put on this other witness and interrupt the testimony of Mr. Stephen and then Mr. Stephen's background.
He's very objective.
Oh, no.
He's not.
He's not here at hand before.
You're telling us where the testimony you're about to give to the police so that nothing but the truth so help you guys.
The police are all involved.
You may be kidding.
The target may take care of the pictures now and then there'll be no more flight problems when you touch them.
They are in the fire of the night.
What the hell?
How you doing?
I live in the abyss of the police.
Mr. Stephen.
Mr. Stephen, please help.
It's Secretary of State and the board of all the members of the committee.
The hospital is being circulated, Mr. Chairman.
And if you have them for their past day, they also need to be treated now.
That's right.
Mr. Chairman, are these mics working? I can't tell.
Can you hear me?
Working with you helps to pull them over closely.
How long is Fender 1 in the ambulance?
Can you hear me now, Mr. Chairman?
That's right.
There's not a copy of the other.
And there's not a copy of the other.
Mr. Chairman, please get the system to the front.
The documents will be system to the front.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman.
There are only two questions I desire to ask this witness,
mad to his reading a statement.
Will you please tell this committee your full name?
Robert, Tenbrook, Stephen.
That's the EVNF.
What official position do you hold with the United States Army?
Secretary of the Army.
Mr. Stephen, how are not you, April,
mad written statements which you desire to read to this committee,
prior to being questioned?
I do have such a state to serve.
You are asked to now read this.
Stay weathering hot.
That is, I dedically, the same statement you submitted
to Chairman Monday and myself yesterday morning,
some 24 hours ago.
Identical, sir.
There have been no changes, whatever made in this state.
None whatsoever.
We're requested to now read that statement,
if it is the desire of yourself and your counsel,
to the committee.
And I have received it.
And I'm a feminist chairman,
and I'll be given a rough bit at the time you will indicate.
That's right, sir.
You will be interrupted, sir.
You may not be able to appear tonight.
Gentlemen of the committee.
I am here today at the request of this committee.
You have my assurance of the political operation.
In order that we may all be quite clear,
as to just why this hearing has come about,
it is necessary for me to refer at the outset
to file its D.D. David Shaw,
a former consultant for this committee.
David Shaw was eligible for the draft.
Efforts were made by the chairman of this committee,
Senator Joseph Ormock Barthie,
and the subcommittee's chief counsel, Mr. Roy M. Cohen,
to secure a commission for it.
Mr. Shaw was not qualified, and he was not commissioned.
Selective service, then drafted it.
Subsequent efforts were made to seek preferential treatment for him.
After he was in the office,
something got wrong up in the...
...cowgrapid cafe.
So he kindly stopped at the sweetened machine there, but it is...
...worked.
He's actually just a bit of a lawyer with a little machine.
I'm sorry, I gave you a speech.
Over the past several months,
it became known that the Army was having a difficulty
in regard to private Shaw.
Several senators in Congressmen requested information from the Army
regarding the Shaw in matters.
Finally, the secretary of the fence received the following letter
from Senator Charles D. Potter dated March 8th.
I have received many inquiries concerning external pressure
for preferential treatment in behalf of private G. David Shaw.
A former member of the staff of the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee,
an investigation,
and now a member of the armed forces.
Pregmentary information which has reached me has been most disturbing.
I request the following information as a member of the above name subcommittee.
One has five of Shaw and receives any preferential treatment.
Watch the lever since becoming a member of the armed forces.
Two, has any effort whatsoever been made by any source affiliated
with the above name subcommittee to exert pressure
for the purpose of gaining preferential treatment for private Shaw?
Three, if such intercession has been made,
please advise me fully of the source type and date of such efforts.
If there is no foundation for the information coming to my attention,
it is no more than proper and fairer, the five of Shaw,
as well as the subcommittee, be so informed.
In the event there is substance for the charges, however,
the committee should have an institution,
all of the facts upon which it may face immediate action.
On March 10th, the Department of Defense repiles the Senate of Potter,
giving him the answers to his questions in the form of a chronology.
Covering the periods from July 8th, 1953, the mid-Sept. R.A. 1954.
I wish to make clear here that this statement was finished only to members of this committee
and to members of the Congress who had specifically asked for it.
It was not made public by the Army.
However, it became public information, Senator McCarthy attacked it.
I am here to verify the answers to Senator Potter's questions.
The chronology of March 10th disposes what you may find to be substantial
and undo efforts on the part of Senator McCarthy and members of the staff
to have preferential treatment given to Jeav David Shaw
by the Army. The Senator and his staff claimed that no such pressure was exerted.
They dealt with the matter by making charges against the Department of Army personnel
and by attempting to draw attention to situations either totally irrelevant
or only remotely relevant to the shine matter.
In this statement, I shall deal first with the issue raised by Senator Potter,
those pushes which were exerted on the Army on behalf of Charn.
The Second night will come in briefly on other matters raised by Senator McCarthy in this state.
Before getting into the Charn story, I want to make two general comments.
First, it is my responsibility to speak for the Army.
The Army is about a million and a half men and women in post across this country
and around the world on active duty and in the national guard and organized reserves
but hundreds of thousands of loyal and faithfully double service.
One point of order.
Mr. Stevens is not speaking for the Army.
He's speaking for Mr. Stevens.
Mr. Adam and Mr. Jensel, the committee did not make the Army a part of the country mercy
and I think it's highly improper to try and make the Army a part of it.
But Mr. Stevens can only speak for himself.
I am for that. Mr. Charn, I'm also chair of the government.
Nothing Mr. Stevens has said indicates that the Army is a part of this controversy.
It is entirely copper and indeed I ask Mr. Stevens what is the official connection
with the Army as well as the Bosnian is.
He's answer being that he was the Secretary.
He is a steady year, facts with reference to the Army by reason of the fact that he is Secretary to the Army.
I wish to call a chairman's attention to this matter.
That when this statement was filed with the Chairman,
and the Senate from a colon and myself went over it, borrowed an in detail,
and decided that it's in its entirety,
was irrelevant and proper statements to be left to this committee.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, what's the matter?
The sons they share and Mr. McClellan decided.
But Mr. Stevens has a marriage responsibility to speak for the Army.
He is not speaking for the Army here.
All the way of investigating has been some communist in the Army.
A very small percentage.
I would say much less than one percent.
And when the Secretary says that in effect I am speaking for the Army,
he is putting the 99 and the 90th percent of goods, honorable while man in the Army, in the position
of trying to oppose the exposure of communist in the Army.
I think that it should be made clear that they have the outset and we didn't waste time on it.
Our after our, the Mr. Stevens is speaking for Mr. Stevens,
and those who are speaking through him,
we Mr. Adam speaks.
He speaks for Mr. Adam's, and those who are speaking through him, and likewise, must have helped him.
And I may say that I have done very, very much at the time that you have connected the very American Army with this,
best attempt to sabotage the efforts of this committee's investigation.
I again say, Mr. Chairman, there is nothing in this statement from which an inference can be drawn
that the Army has but put a party in the interest to this controversy.
And we are in a card with a senator that the parties in the interest are Mr. Stevens, Mr. Adam's, and Mr. Henson.
If that's understood, then I have no objection.
That is not understood, and I think that Secretary, who has the Army,
please let me be the Secretary, he speaks for the Army, and appropriate, and as a matter of fact, he might want to speak about it,
and this inquiry, he speaks for himself, and Mr. Adam's, and Mr. Henson.
Mr. Chairman, my eyes say, sir, if this was art, that I was appointed Secretary of the Army by the Commander-in-Chief,
that I was confirmed by the Senate of the United States.
But I worked as a member of the team and the Department of Defense under Secretary Wilkow,
that it is my responsibility, as I have said here, speak for the Army.
Mr. Stevens, may I remind you that this chairman has ruled that you may read your statement.
Arguments will be made only to have the conclusion of this year.
I suggest that it ought to conserve time, this is just Stevens' precedence to the reading of his statement.
As a rule in argument, Mr. Stevens, you may be seated.
It is many millions of officers, non-commissioned officers, and men who have in the past worn its uniform.
It is millions of others who will one day wear the same uniform.
The Army is a great and non-extendable institution.
It is a mild legend, a common force against common dangers.
The valor, history, integrity, loyalty, and capability of the Army are beyond question.
It is serving the country today as it has throughout our history, in a dependable and devoted manner.
I speak for the Army today out of a pride and confidence that grows greater every day I spend on jobs.
There are personal reasons too for my pride in the Army and for my resentment of any swear against it or any one of the armed servicers.
The two oldest of our four sons, enlisted in the Navy during World War II, our third son, enlisted in 1952 as a pilot,
and is now a couple with the seven sons in Europe.
He has been overseas in 21 months.
Second, I want to affirm here my foe belief in the right of Congress to investigate,
and that means scrutinizing the activities of the Army or any other department of the executive branch of the government.
The conscientious exercise of this obligation in one of the checks contemplated by the Constitution against the possibility of unlimited executive authority by the executive branch of the government.
As a member of the executive branch, it is my duty to do everything I properly can to help this and other committees of Congress.
I have such a profound regard for elective office in this country that it comes very easily for me to cooperate with the senators, the representatives, and the committees of Congress.
Let me now turn to the point of issue and first summarize the sharn story.
I have been informed, once, from mid July of last year until March 1st of this year, David Sharn was discussed between one branch,
or other as a department of the Army and Senator McCarthy, or members of his staff, in more than 65 telephone calls.
During the same period, this matter was discussed at a approximately 19 meetings between the Army personnel and Senator McCarthy for members of his staff.
Three, requests made on shines behalf, raised from several or direct commissions before he was inducted into the Army,
to many for special assignments, relate from routine duties, such as KP, expert formal, and special visitor privileges.
Four, from November 10th, 1953 to January 16th, 1954, shined by the then-apotted and army, obtained 15 passes from the post.
By way of comparison, the majority of other newly inducted personnel obtained three passes during the same period.
The history of the sharn case begins where the army is concerned on July 8th, 1953.
I had been informed that General Miles Reaver, the then chief of the Army's legislative liaison office, had been told the Senator McCarthy's office.
Senator McCarthy asked him if a direct commission could be obtained for sharns, then on members of the Senator's staff.
The Senator stated the speed was desirable since shine might soon be drafted.
Roy and Tom, chief counsel on the Senator's staff, was present, and reiterated the need for speed.
The next day, General Reaver called Tom and told him that in order for shine to be considered for a commission, he would have to come in and fill out a formal application, which he bid.
On July 15th, shine himself, taught the lieutenant general Fred J. Brammerman in the Army Office of the Year, legislative liaison,
and asked whether he could come over to the Pentagon that afternoon and hold up his hand to be sworn for his dismiss.
Pardon me, Mr. Steven, Mr. Steven, how this time we have the witnesses present in court can be in the committee room.
In the committee room, the matter is not thank you for it.
Five minutes, Mr. Secretary will talk to you magazine as many as Mr. Smith.
The next witness in central authority will be issued at just comment in the committee room.
So, General Roy already used to be a serious candidate with his gang.
Smith, chief, of coming to what the health care now is general born.
I think it's about the care of the students, the host, and nothing about the students.
Don't help you guys, I do.
Thank you.
The interview of the fact that General Smith is engaged in many pressing matters vital to the nation.
I wish to announce that I will make my examination and any calls examination as far as I can, and as much to the point as possible.
Any piece of question that the members of the committee and those interested do likewise to the end.
That is testimony made to each of these dissatisfinements.
It be my understanding that there is a possibility that he will be called to the foreign country for much tomorrow.
By the benefit of the record, will you please take your full remains.
A lot of being smithed, General Roy's army retired, presently under Secretary of State.
General Smith, where you retired as a July 1953 foreign army.
How was it?
About the position that you hold as a July 1953 under Secretary of State.
You are personally a clear senator MacCardy.
I am.
I would ask you, General Smith, first of all, whether an officer of MacCardy in person.
By telephone call or otherwise, ever come back to you with reference to one G-David Chan.
Not directly, my regularity.
Please, please, state, whether and counsel for General MacCardy, Mr. Roy Pooh.
Are any member of General MacCardy's staff, they've come back to you with reference to Chan.
It's shown that when was that?
The General Smith, by for me, I have been requested to ask you to identify the gentleman sitting on your right and the gentleman sitting on your left.
On my right, there's a system for Secretary Bruce and Morton.
On my left, there's Mr. Scott McClough.
Now you may proceed, or you may refer to any document.
You desire to refer to the purpose of refreshing your recollections.
And without asking you specific questions, I will ask you to stay chronologically.
When the first contact was made that was reviewed by Mr. Pooh,
or anyone on Senator MacCardy's staff, we've referenced the Chan, what was said, and so on, that I'm alive.
Mr. Chairman, I can do this best by reading the carbon copy of a letter which I sent to the Secretary of Defense from days ago.
If I may do so, I will read it, which completes my knowledge of the incident.
May I do so?
No, Jackson. You may.
What, thanks?
To reach on a letter you have written, with reference to this incident, I am.
When was the letter written, may be asked? On April, Trent, 1954.
Thanks, whether or not, in that letter, you undertake to the best of your ability to recount the events of July 31, 1953.
And immediately subsequent minutes, and immediately passed, I do.
I knew what circumstances was this letter of April 10, 1954 written.
It will be self-explanatory, I think Mr. Counselor, let me read it.
And with that, we can totalize the following.
Okay, James, I think you can.
I say I think that the letter will explain so.
I will have you make with me.
Here, Mr. Secretary, at the request of the Secretary of the Army, I transmit to the Department of Defense the following,
which is my recollection of the principal point in a telephone conversation and interview with Mr. Roy Cohn of the Staff of the Senate Committee on Government Operations,
and a telephone conversation with General John Nees Hall, Vice Chief of Staff of the Army, which took place on July 31 and on August 1, 1953.
Thank you.